docs/_ecamm-live-manual/006-broadcast-to-facebook.md, before:

---

---

_See also_ the [First Facebook Live tutorial](/ecamm-live-first-facebook-live/001-introduction/) for the bare essentials from first-run to your first Facebook Live broadcast.
{: .notice}

In the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, select <samp>Facebook</samp>, in the bottom-right of the Main Window. A big blue button at the bottom-center of the Main Window will display one of several different options:

* <samp class="blue">Login</samp> — click to login to Facebook and connect the app.
* <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> —  you're logged into Facebook. Click to begin a live broadcast.
* <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> — you're logged into Facebook, and have scheduled an upcoming Live broadcast.

### Login to Facebook

Click the blue <samp class="blue">Login</samp> button to summon Facebook's secure Login form. Enter your credentials, and if you use Two-factor Authentication, you'll be asked for that code as well.

Once logged in, Ecamm Live will then ask for permission to post to your timeline and other locations within Facebook. This is necessary to publish live streams. If you manage Pages or Groups (for example for a business or other organization), Ecamm Live will also prompt for permission to manage Pages and Groups.

If you need to change these permissions later, visit the [Facebook App settings webpage](https://www.facebook.com/settings?tab=applications) and click on <samp>Ecamm Live for Mac</samp>. If you have trouble broadcasting to a particular destination, come back to these settings within Facebook to ensure you're allowing access as intended.

Once you're logged in, you're only one click away from your first Facebook Live broadcast. However, you'll want to verify where and how you are broadcasting to Facebook first. In the bottom right corner, you'll see several pull down menus appearing below the <samp>Destination</samp> menu.

![Figure\: Destination Menus Options for Facebook labeled](/assets/img/facebook-destination-menus.png "Destination Options for Facebook"){:width="400px"}

* <samp>Post as</samp> — Select **who** the broadcast will appear from. The menu includes your personal Profile and all Pages that you administer.

![Figure\: Post As Menu Options labeled](/assets/img/facebook-destination-post-as-menu.png "Post As Options"){:width="400px"}

* <samp>Post to</samp> — Select **where** your Facebook Live broadcast will appear, and your options depend upon who you're posting as. If you're posting as yourself, options include your personal Profile, and any Groups you administer. if you have selected to post as a Page, you'll see options for the Page's timeline and any Groups linked to the Page. When posting to your personal Profile, you'll see privacy options to choose from, like <samp>Profile (Just Friends)</samp> which allow you to restrict your audience.

* <samp>Go Live</samp> — Select **when** your broadcast will post to Facebook. Your choices are <samp>Now</samp> and <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>

### Going Live Now

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> you may click the big blue button labeled <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> in the Main Window to broadcast immediately, or first create a Facebook Post to accompany the video.

To create a post for your Live broadcast, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll see a <samp>Description</samp> field and a map pin icon. Text entered in the <samp>Description</samp> field will become the text of the post that accompanies your Facebook Live broadcast. Optionally, if you would like to enter a Title for your broadcast, select <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Show Title Field</samp>. This title only appears on Facebook when a viewer with a desktop browser clicks on the broadcast. It _will not appear on news feeds or for mobile viewers._ 

Clicking the{% inlineicon locbutton 15 inverted %}Map Pin icon{% endinlineicon %}map pin allows you to tell Facebook where you're broadcasting from, which will be noted in your Facebook Live announcement as well as place you on the Facebook Live map.

Once you've added the content for the post, click the big blue button labeled <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> in the Main Window to broadcast immediately.

### Creating a New Scheduled Live

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>New Scheduled Live</samp>, a sheet appears to help you create a Scheduled Live broadcast, with a description and time for the broadcast. These will create an announcement post on Facebook at the <samp>Post to</samp> location. At the time you choose, between ten minutes from <em>now</em> and seven days from now, the announcement will turn into a live video post. If you'd like an image to accompany the announcement, drag an image onto the circular icon on the right side of the post editor. You may click the {% inlineicon locbutton 15 inverted %}Map Pin icon{% endinlineicon %}map pin icon to add a location for the broadcast.

[![Figure\: Scheduled Live Announcement Post Editor, annotated](/assets/img/facebook-scheduled-live-editor.png "Scheduled Live Announcement Post Editor. Click for full-size image.")](/assets/img/facebook-scheduled-live-editor.png)

Once you have scheduled a Live broadcast, any pending broadcasts are listed in the <samp>Go Live</samp> menu. When a pending broadcast is selected there, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll now see a countdown timer, which lists the time left until you go live. Click the timer to view or edit the announcement post that was created on Facebook. It will open in your default web browser. Also, there's a {% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} trash icon for cancelling the scheduled broadcast.

Before the countdown reaches zero, the big blue button displays <samp class="blue">Preview</samp>. Pressing <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> allows you to test your streaming connection prior to the beginning of your scheduled live broadcast. The preview stream is only visible to the broadcaster. Visit the post announcing your Live broadcast on Facebook (which you can do by clicking the countdown timer) and there will be a small link at the bottom of the post labeled <samp>Broadcaster Only: Edit Your Details</samp>. Click this to view the space where your stream will appear, and in a few seconds, you'll be able to preview your live stream. If, while you're previewing the stream, the countdown to your Live broadcast ends, your preview will become the Live broadcast automatically.

<aside markdown="1" class="notice">
#### A note about delay in Live broadcasts

Live broadcasts have a delay. This is delay is not generated by Ecamm Live. Everyone who watches (including you viewing your preview stream) will be roughly 10 seconds behind you. Keep this in mind when interacting with the audience, as any feedback they provide will be significantly behind you.
</aside>

## Ending a Facebook Live Broadcast

Click <samp class="blue">Finish</samp>.

(Well, that was brief.)

## After a Facebook Live Broadcast

After clicking <samp class="blue">Finish</samp> we'll present you with a message confirming your broadcast has ended, and offer several options for your next steps.

On Facebook, a recording of your Live broadcast is now a post on where ever your stream was posted—Profile, Page, Group, etc. Facebook does this automatically.

<samp>{% inlineicon visible 15 inverted %}View Post{% endinlineicon %} View Post</samp> - click to reveal the post in your default web browser.

<samp>{% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} Delete Post</samp> - click to remove the post from Facebook. We'll double-check with you before we destroy it, as there is no undo.

The next two items concern a local Recording of your broadcast. Much more on Recordings in the following section, but for now…

<samp>{% inlineicon magnify 15 inverted %}Show File Button{% endinlineicon %} Show File</samp> - click to reveal the local video file in your Mac's Finder.

<samp>{% inlineicon yt 15 inverted %}Send To YouTube Button{% endinlineicon %} Send To YouTube</samp> - click to send the local video file to your YouTube Account.

If you've never used the YouTube feature, you'll be asked to sign in when you press the <samp>{% inlineicon yt 15 inverted %}Send To YouTube Button{% endinlineicon %} Send To YouTube</samp> button. You'll then be presented with a form to add information about your upload, and set its visibility options. Once you've uploaded, you can close the dialog box or you can click to <samp>Go To YouTube</samp> to view your upload.

## Logging out of Facebook

Ecamm Live will stay logged into Facebook unless you manually log out, or if you remove permissions for Ecamm Live in Facebook's account settings.

If you'd like to log out of Facebook, first make sure <samp>Facebook</samp> is selected in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu. Then go to the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of your display, and select <samp>Log out</samp>. In the Main Window, we'll ask to confirm before logging you out. Click <samp>Log out</samp> and it will be so.

## A Few Advanced Settings for Facebook Live

### Using Facebook Ambient Broadcasts

Ambient broadcasts—also called continuous broadcasts—are a special kind of live stream that

* Can exceed Facebook's four hour Live broadcast time limit 
* Will disappear from your timeline immediately when the stream end 
* Does not send notifications to followers

Facebook suggests these live streams are ideal for places like aquariums, museums, and zoos. If you're interested in running an Ambient broadcast, enable it in the <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Ambient Broadcast</samp>.

### Getting Code for Embedding Your Broadcast

The video player your Live broadcast resides in can be embedded into other places. This can be a great thing for your audience extending your reach. To get the embed URL for a stream, once a stream has been scheduled or started, pick <samp>Copy Embed URL</samp> from the <samp>Edit</samp> menu. This will allow you to embed a video player with your broadcast elsewhere in Facebook (that is congruent with your broadcast's privacy settings). Alternatively, <samp>Copy Embed HTML</samp> will provide an HTML snippet containing an `IFRAME`. This will allow you to place a video player on a page out on the open web.

### Disallow Embedding

The video player your Live broadcast resides in can be embedded into places you have not specifically choose to broadcast, within Facebook, or out on the open web, but there are times you may prefer to disallow it. <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Disallow Embedding</samp>.

### Broadcasting Branded Content

Facebook policies require creators and publishers to tag their business partners in their [branded content posts](https://www.facebook.com/help/publisher/1045927788843932?helpref=page_content#). When setting up a Live broadcast that involves a business partner, enter a Sponsor ID by selecting <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Include Sponsor ID</samp>. This option is only available when broadcasting to a business Page.  

### Sound Effects

Ecamm Live will play a sound when comments arrive. Viewers may hear the sounds if you use speakers during the broadcast, while Ecamm Live's echo cancellation feature is deactivated. If you don’t want Ecamm to make sound effects, select <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Sound Effects</samp> (the checkmark will will disappear).

<aside class="notice" markdown="1">
#### Broadcasting to Facebook and Other Services Simultaneously

Ecamm Live broadcasts to one live streaming service at a time. Restream.io users can use that service to stream to multiple services simultaneously, and Restream.io works with Ecamm Live as [an RTMP service.](../007-broadcast-to-rtmp) Note that Facebook Live's terms specifically prohibit streaming to both Facebook and any other service simultaneously.
</aside>

<aside class="notice--warning" markdown="1">
#### Don't Get into Trouble—a legal aside

Facebook places restrictions upon the content you put in Live broadcasts. Restrictions include no placement of third-party video ads in your live video. For example, don't include bumpers, pre-roll, mid-roll or post-roll ads. Ensure any pre-recorded content is clearly distinguishable from live content. Don't broadcast copyrighted material—music, video, TV, etc.—that you don't own the rights to. Facebook monitors broadcasts. They will auto-detect copyrighted materials and disable your use of Facebook Live broadcasting. There may be additional restrictions, including some specific to your jurisdiction.

We are not lawyers. You should [refer to Facebook's Terms and Policies for full details on their rules.](https://www.facebook.com/policies) _Phew._ Let's get back to the fun stuff.
</aside>

Commit message:

Each service gets a section on viewing and displaying comments and reactions

docs/_ecamm-live-manual/006-broadcast-to-facebook.md, after:

---

---

_See also_ the [First Facebook Live tutorial](/ecamm-live-first-facebook-live/001-introduction/) for the bare essentials from first-run to your first Facebook Live broadcast.
{: .notice}

In the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, select <samp>Facebook</samp>, in the bottom-right of the Main Window. A big blue button at the bottom-center of the Main Window will display one of several different options:

* <samp class="blue">Login</samp> — click to login to Facebook and connect the app.
* <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> —  you're logged into Facebook. Click to begin a live broadcast.
* <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> — you're logged into Facebook, and have scheduled an upcoming Live broadcast.

### Login to Facebook

Click the blue <samp class="blue">Login</samp> button to summon Facebook's secure Login form. Enter your credentials, and if you use Two-factor Authentication, you'll be asked for that code as well.

Once logged in, Ecamm Live will then ask for permission to post to your timeline and other locations within Facebook. This is necessary to publish live streams. If you manage Pages or Groups (for example for a business or other organization), Ecamm Live will also prompt for permission to manage Pages and Groups.

If you need to change these permissions later, visit the [Facebook App settings webpage](https://www.facebook.com/settings?tab=applications) and click on <samp>Ecamm Live for Mac</samp>. If you have trouble broadcasting to a particular destination, come back to these settings within Facebook to ensure you're allowing access as intended.

Once you're logged in, you're only one click away from your first Facebook Live broadcast. However, you'll want to verify where and how you are broadcasting to Facebook first. In the bottom right corner, you'll see several pull down menus appearing below the <samp>Destination</samp> menu.

![Figure\: Destination Menus Options for Facebook labeled](/assets/img/facebook-destination-menus.png "Destination Options for Facebook"){:width="400px"}

* <samp>Post as</samp> — Select **who** the broadcast will appear from. The menu includes your personal Profile and all Pages that you administer.

![Figure\: Post As Menu Options labeled](/assets/img/facebook-destination-post-as-menu.png "Post As Options"){:width="400px"}

* <samp>Post to</samp> — Select **where** your Facebook Live broadcast will appear, and your options depend upon who you're posting as. If you're posting as yourself, options include your personal Profile, and any Groups you administer. if you have selected to post as a Page, you'll see options for the Page's timeline and any Groups linked to the Page. When posting to your personal Profile, you'll see privacy options to choose from, like <samp>Profile (Just Friends)</samp> which allow you to restrict your audience.

* <samp>Go Live</samp> — Select **when** your broadcast will post to Facebook. Your choices are <samp>Now</samp> and <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>

### Going Live Now

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> you may click the big blue button labeled <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> in the Main Window to broadcast immediately, or first create a Facebook Post to accompany the video.

To create a post for your Live broadcast, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll see a <samp>Description</samp> field and a map pin icon. Text entered in the <samp>Description</samp> field will become the text of the post that accompanies your Facebook Live broadcast. Optionally, if you would like to enter a Title for your broadcast, select <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Show Title Field</samp>. This title only appears on Facebook when a viewer with a desktop browser clicks on the broadcast. It _will not appear on news feeds or for mobile viewers._ 

Clicking the{% inlineicon locbutton 15 inverted %}Map Pin icon{% endinlineicon %}map pin allows you to tell Facebook where you're broadcasting from, which will be noted in your Facebook Live announcement as well as place you on the Facebook Live map.

Once you've added the content for the post, click the big blue button labeled <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp> in the Main Window to broadcast immediately.

### Creating a New Scheduled Live

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>New Scheduled Live</samp>, a sheet appears to help you create a Scheduled Live broadcast, with a description and time for the broadcast. These will create an announcement post on Facebook at the <samp>Post to</samp> location. At the time you choose, between ten minutes from <em>now</em> and seven days from now, the announcement will turn into a live video post. If you'd like an image to accompany the announcement, drag an image onto the circular icon on the right side of the post editor. You may click the {% inlineicon locbutton 15 inverted %}Map Pin icon{% endinlineicon %}map pin icon to add a location for the broadcast.

[![Figure\: Scheduled Live Announcement Post Editor, annotated](/assets/img/facebook-scheduled-live-editor.png "Scheduled Live Announcement Post Editor. Click for full-size image.")](/assets/img/facebook-scheduled-live-editor.png)

Once you have scheduled a Live broadcast, any pending broadcasts are listed in the <samp>Go Live</samp> menu. When a pending broadcast is selected there, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll now see a countdown timer, which lists the time left until you go live. Click the timer to view or edit the announcement post that was created on Facebook. It will open in your default web browser. Also, there's a {% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} trash icon for cancelling the scheduled broadcast.

Before the countdown reaches zero, the big blue button displays <samp class="blue">Preview</samp>. Pressing <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> allows you to test your streaming connection prior to the beginning of your scheduled live broadcast. The preview stream is only visible to the broadcaster. Visit the post announcing your Live broadcast on Facebook (which you can do by clicking the countdown timer) and there will be a small link at the bottom of the post labeled <samp>Broadcaster Only: Edit Your Details</samp>. Click this to view the space where your stream will appear, and in a few seconds, you'll be able to preview your live stream. If, while you're previewing the stream, the countdown to your Live broadcast ends, your preview will become the Live broadcast automatically.

## View Viewer Comments and Reactions

During broadcasts, any comments or reactions your audience makes on your live broadcast will be displayed in the Comments and Reactions window. Additionally, at the top of the Main Window we'll display a live count of viewers, visible only to you.

## Display Comments on Your Broadcast

If you would like to share your viewers' comments with the audience, you can add individual comments to the broadcast by dragging them from the Comments and Reactions window to the Main Window, or clicking <samp>Add to Broadcast</samp> under any comment. The comment will become a styled Text Overlay. Read more about your options in the [Overlays section](/ecamm-live-manual/003-using-overlays/#comment-overlays).

<aside markdown="1" class="notice">
#### A note about delay in Live broadcasts

Live broadcasts have a delay. This is delay is not generated by Ecamm Live. Everyone who watches (including you viewing your preview stream) will be roughly 10 seconds behind you. Keep this in mind when interacting with the audience, as any feedback they provide will be significantly behind you.
</aside>

## Ending a Facebook Live Broadcast

Click <samp class="blue">Finish</samp>.

(Well, that was brief.)

## After a Facebook Live Broadcast

After clicking <samp class="blue">Finish</samp> we'll present you with a message confirming your broadcast has ended, and offer several options for your next steps.

On Facebook, a recording of your Live broadcast is now a post on where ever your stream was posted—Profile, Page, Group, etc. Facebook does this automatically.

<samp>{% inlineicon visible 15 inverted %}View Post{% endinlineicon %} View Post</samp> - click to reveal the post in your default web browser.

<samp>{% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} Delete Post</samp> - click to remove the post from Facebook. We'll double-check with you before we destroy it, as there is no undo.

The next two items concern a local Recording of your broadcast. Much more on Recordings in the following section, but for now…

<samp>{% inlineicon magnify 15 inverted %}Show File Button{% endinlineicon %} Show File</samp> - click to reveal the local video file in your Mac's Finder.

<samp>{% inlineicon yt 15 inverted %}Send To YouTube Button{% endinlineicon %} Send To YouTube</samp> - click to send the local video file to your YouTube Account.

If you've never used the YouTube feature, you'll be asked to sign in when you press the <samp>{% inlineicon yt 15 inverted %}Send To YouTube Button{% endinlineicon %} Send To YouTube</samp> button. You'll then be presented with a form to add information about your upload, and set its visibility options. Once you've uploaded, you can close the dialog box or you can click to <samp>Go To YouTube</samp> to view your upload.

## Logging out of Facebook

Ecamm Live will stay logged into Facebook unless you manually log out, or if you remove permissions for Ecamm Live in Facebook's account settings.

If you'd like to log out of Facebook, first make sure <samp>Facebook</samp> is selected in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu. Then go to the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of your display, and select <samp>Log out</samp>. In the Main Window, we'll ask to confirm before logging you out. Click <samp>Log out</samp> and it will be so.

## A Few Advanced Settings for Facebook Live

### Using Facebook Ambient Broadcasts

Ambient broadcasts—also called continuous broadcasts—are a special kind of live stream that

* Can exceed Facebook's four hour Live broadcast time limit 
* Will disappear from your timeline immediately when the stream end 
* Does not send notifications to followers

Facebook suggests these live streams are ideal for places like aquariums, museums, and zoos. If you're interested in running an Ambient broadcast, enable it in the <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Ambient Broadcast</samp>.

### Getting Code for Embedding Your Broadcast

The video player your Live broadcast resides in can be embedded into other places. This can be a great thing for your audience extending your reach. To get the embed URL for a stream, once a stream has been scheduled or started, pick <samp>Copy Embed URL</samp> from the <samp>Edit</samp> menu. This will allow you to embed a video player with your broadcast elsewhere in Facebook (that is congruent with your broadcast's privacy settings). Alternatively, <samp>Copy Embed HTML</samp> will provide an HTML snippet containing an `IFRAME`. This will allow you to place a video player on a page out on the open web.

### Disallow Embedding

The video player your Live broadcast resides in can be embedded into places you have not specifically choose to broadcast, within Facebook, or out on the open web, but there are times you may prefer to disallow it. <samp>Options</samp> menu ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Disallow Embedding</samp>.

### Broadcasting Branded Content

Facebook policies require creators and publishers to tag their business partners in their [branded content posts](https://www.facebook.com/help/publisher/1045927788843932?helpref=page_content#). When setting up a Live broadcast that involves a business partner, enter a Sponsor ID by selecting <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Facebook Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Include Sponsor ID</samp>. This option is only available when broadcasting to a business Page.  

### Sound Effects

Ecamm Live will play a sound when comments arrive. Viewers may hear the sounds if you use speakers during the broadcast, while Ecamm Live's echo cancellation feature is deactivated. If you don’t want Ecamm to make sound effects, select <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>Sound Effects</samp> (the checkmark will will disappear).

<aside class="notice" markdown="1">
#### Broadcasting to Facebook and Other Services Simultaneously

Ecamm Live broadcasts to one live streaming service at a time. Restream.io users can use that service to stream to multiple services simultaneously, and Restream.io works with Ecamm Live as [an RTMP service.](../007-broadcast-to-rtmp) Note that Facebook Live's terms specifically prohibit streaming to both Facebook and any other service simultaneously.
</aside>

<aside class="notice--warning" markdown="1">
#### Don't Get into Trouble—a legal aside

Facebook places restrictions upon the content you put in Live broadcasts. Restrictions include no placement of third-party video ads in your live video. For example, don't include bumpers, pre-roll, mid-roll or post-roll ads. Ensure any pre-recorded content is clearly distinguishable from live content. Don't broadcast copyrighted material—music, video, TV, etc.—that you don't own the rights to. Facebook monitors broadcasts. They will auto-detect copyrighted materials and disable your use of Facebook Live broadcasting. There may be additional restrictions, including some specific to your jurisdiction.

We are not lawyers. You should [refer to Facebook's Terms and Policies for full details on their rules.](https://www.facebook.com/policies) _Phew._ Let's get back to the fun stuff.
</aside>
