docs/_ecamm-live-manual/007-broadcast-to-youtube.md, before:

---
title: Broadcast to YouTube
---

Broadcasting to YouTube starts in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, in the bottom right of the Main Window. Select <samp>YouTube</samp>. The YouTube Login button will appear at the bottom of the Main Window.

If you've never logged into YouTube with Ecamm Live, click <samp class="blue">Login</samp> now, and follow through the prompts.

If you haven't broadcasted live to your YouTube account previously, you'll need to enable the option by visiting [your Live Dashboard first](<https://www.youtube.com/live_dashboard_splash>). Otherwise, you'll see a message to do so.

![Figure\: Screenshot of what happens if you've not enabled live streaming first when you try to broadcast.](/assets/img/yt-live-not-enabled.png "A warning message if your YouTube Live streaming is not yet enabled. "){:width="400px"}

Once you're logged in, you can begin a live broadcast immediately by clicking <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp>, but there are a couple of options you'll want to check out first.

## YouTube Live Broadcast Options

YouTube assigns a category to its live broadcasts. You can choose your category under <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>YouTube Video Category</samp>.

Under the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, you have two options to set. 

<samp>Broadcast to</samp> ➝ <samp>Public</samp>, <samp>Unlisted</samp>, <samp>Private</samp>.

* <samp>Public</samp> will create a video that shows on your channel.
* <samp>Unlisted</samp> will create a video that is available only if the viewer has a direct link to the broadcast. It will be otherwise unfindable to the public.
* <samp>Private</samp> will create a video that is only available to you.

<samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> or <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>

<samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> will begin your video without a prior announcement.

<samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp> will allow you to set a date and time for a live broadcast, as well as create a title, description and thumbnail image.

### Going Live Now

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp>, give your broadcast a title and description by filling in the Title and Description fields in the lower left corner of the Main Window. Then click <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp>.

### Creating a New Scheduled Live

If you want to announce a broadcast ahead of time, select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>. An editor appears to allow you to set a date and time for a live broadcast, as well as create a title and description. You can also add an image to your announcement by dragging an image file onto the cicle on the right side of the post editor. Complete the process by clicking <samp>Schedule</samp>.

To enter a return (new line) in the description field, hold down shift while pressing return.

![Figure\: YouTube Scheduled Live Post Editor](/assets/img/yt-live-scheduled-post-editor.png "YouTube Scheduled Live Post Editor")

Once you have scheduled a Live broadcast, any pending broadcasts are listed in the <samp>Go Live</samp> menu. When a pending broadcast is selected there, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll now see a countdown timer, which lists the time left until you go live. Click the timer to view or edit the post details in your YouTube Dashboard. It will open in your default web browser. Also, there's a {% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} trash icon for cancelling the scheduled broadcast.

Before the countdown reaches zero, the big blue button displays <samp class="blue">Preview</samp>. Pressing <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> allows you to test your streaming connection prior to the beginning of your scheduled live broadcast. To view your preview, pick <samp>View Post on YouTube</samp> from the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of the screen or press <kbd title="command">⌘</kbd><kbd>F</kbd> to visit the stream's Live Control Room on YouTube.  You'll see a window to view the preview.

## View Live Chat Messages and Reactions

During broadcasts, any YouTube live chat messages and reactions your audience makes on your live broadcast will be displayed in the Comments and Reactions window. Additionally, at the top of the Main Window we'll display a live count of viewers, visible only to you.

## Display Comments on Your Broadcast

If you would like to share your viewers' comments with the audience, you can add individual comments to the broadcast by dragging them from the Comments and Reactions window to the Main Window, or clicking <samp>Add to Broadcast</samp> under any comment. The comment will become a styled Text Overlay. Read more about your options in the [Overlays section](/ecamm-live-manual/003-using-overlays/#comment-overlays).

<aside markdown="1" class="notice">
#### A note about delay in Live broadcasts

Live broadcasts have a delay. This is delay is not generated by Ecamm Live. Everyone who watches (including you viewing your preview stream) will be roughly 10 seconds behind you. Keep this in mind when interacting with the audience, as any feedback they provide will be significantly behind you. Additionally, YouTube provides options to adjust the delay per broadcast under "Stream Optimizations" in the Advanced section of your [Live Events Dashboard](https://www.youtube.com/my_live_events).
</aside>

## Ending a YouTube Live Broadcast

Click <samp class="blue">Finish</samp>.

(That's it.)

## Post-broadcast options

After clicking <samp class="blue">Finish</samp> we'll present you with a message confirming your broadcast has ended, and offer several options for your next steps.

On YouTube, your Live broadcast is now a video on your channel. 

<samp>{% inlineicon visible 15 inverted %}View Post{% endinlineicon %} View Post</samp> - click to reveal the YouTube video in your default web browser.

<samp>{% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} Delete Post</samp> - click to remove the video from YouTube. We'll double-check with you before we destroy it, as there is no undo.

<samp>{% inlineicon magnify 15 inverted %}Show File Button{% endinlineicon %} Show File</samp> - Ecamm Live automatically creates a local recording of your broadcast. Click this to reveal the video file in the Mac's Finder.

## Logging out of YouTube

Ecamm Live will stay logged into YouTube unless you manually log out.

If you'd like to log out of YouTube, with <samp>YouTube</samp> selected in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, go to the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of your display, and select <samp>Log out</samp>. In the Main Window, we'll ask to confirm before logging you out. Pick <samp>Log Out</samp>.

Commit message:

Promotions get their own section on the YT page.

docs/_ecamm-live-manual/007-broadcast-to-youtube.md, after:

---
title: Broadcast to YouTube
---

Broadcasting to YouTube starts in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, in the bottom right of the Main Window. Select <samp>YouTube</samp>. The YouTube Login button will appear at the bottom of the Main Window.

If you've never logged into YouTube with Ecamm Live, click <samp class="blue">Login</samp> now, and follow through the prompts.

If you haven't broadcasted live to your YouTube account previously, you'll need to enable the option by visiting [your Live Dashboard first](<https://www.youtube.com/live_dashboard_splash>). Otherwise, you'll see a message to do so.

![Figure\: Screenshot of what happens if you've not enabled live streaming first when you try to broadcast.](/assets/img/yt-live-not-enabled.png "A warning message if your YouTube Live streaming is not yet enabled. "){:width="400px"}

Once you're logged in, you can begin a live broadcast immediately by clicking <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp>, but there are a couple of options you'll want to check out first.

## YouTube Live Broadcast Options

YouTube assigns a category to its live broadcasts. You can choose your category under <samp>Options</samp> ➝ <samp>YouTube Video Category</samp>.

Under the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, you have two options to set. 

<samp>Broadcast to</samp> ➝ <samp>Public</samp>, <samp>Unlisted</samp>, <samp>Private</samp>.

* <samp>Public</samp> will create a video that shows on your channel.
* <samp>Unlisted</samp> will create a video that is available only if the viewer has a direct link to the broadcast. It will be otherwise unfindable to the public.
* <samp>Private</samp> will create a video that is only available to you.

<samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> or <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>

<samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp> will begin your video without a prior announcement.

<samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp> will allow you to set a date and time for a live broadcast, as well as create a title, description and thumbnail image.

### Going Live Now

If you select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>Now (Unscheduled)</samp>, give your broadcast a title and description by filling in the Title and Description fields in the lower left corner of the Main Window. Then click <samp class="blue">Go Live</samp>.

### Creating a New Scheduled Live

If you want to announce a broadcast ahead of time, select <samp>Go Live</samp> ➝ <samp>New Scheduled Live…</samp>. An editor appears to allow you to set a date and time for a live broadcast, as well as create a title and description. You can also add an image to your announcement by dragging an image file onto the cicle on the right side of the post editor. Complete the process by clicking <samp>Schedule</samp>.

To enter a return (new line) in the description field, hold down shift while pressing return.

![Figure\: YouTube Scheduled Live Post Editor](/assets/img/yt-live-scheduled-post-editor.png "YouTube Scheduled Live Post Editor")

After you schedule your broadcast, we'll show you a confirmation that it was created, and a note that you can go to YouTube's Advanced Settings for your Event, and change your promotion settings, if you choose.

![Figure\: YouTube Scheduled Live Post Confirmation](/assets/img/yt-scheduled-live-confirmation.png "YouTube Scheduled Live Post Confirmation")

Clicking the <samp>Visit Settings</samp> button will bring you to your Event's Dashboard. If you click OK instead, you can also get to this same place by clicking the countdown timer in the lower-left of the Main Window, when your Event is selected in the bottom-right <samp>Go Live</samp> menu. 

The Promotions settings are a bit buried, in the Advanced tab of your Event's Dashboard. Below is an image of what to look for:

![Figure\: YouTube Scheduled Live Channel Promotion](/assets/img/yt-advanced-promotion.png "YouTube Scheduled Live Channel Promotion")

When you have scheduled a Live broadcast, any pending broadcasts are listed in the <samp>Go Live</samp> menu. When a pending broadcast is selected there, in the bottom left corner of the Main Window, you'll now see a countdown timer, which lists the time left until you go live. Click the timer to view or edit the post details in your YouTube Dashboard. It will open in your default web browser. Also, there's a {% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} trash icon for cancelling the scheduled broadcast.

Before the countdown reaches zero, the big blue button displays <samp class="blue">Preview</samp>. Pressing <samp class="blue">Preview</samp> allows you to test your streaming connection prior to the beginning of your scheduled live broadcast. To view your preview, pick <samp>View Post on YouTube</samp> from the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of the screen or press <kbd title="command">⌘</kbd><kbd>F</kbd> to visit the stream's Live Control Room on YouTube.  You'll see a window to view the preview.

## View Live Chat Messages and Reactions

During broadcasts, any YouTube live chat messages and reactions your audience makes on your live broadcast will be displayed in the Comments and Reactions window. Additionally, at the top of the Main Window we'll display a live count of viewers, visible only to you.

## Display Comments on Your Broadcast

If you would like to share your viewers' comments with the audience, you can add individual comments to the broadcast by dragging them from the Comments and Reactions window to the Main Window, or clicking <samp>Add to Broadcast</samp> under any comment. The comment will become a styled Text Overlay. Read more about your options in the [Overlays section](/ecamm-live-manual/003-using-overlays/#comment-overlays).

<aside markdown="1" class="notice">
#### A note about delay in Live broadcasts

Live broadcasts have a delay. This is delay is not generated by Ecamm Live. Everyone who watches (including you viewing your preview stream) will be roughly 10 seconds behind you. Keep this in mind when interacting with the audience, as any feedback they provide will be significantly behind you. Additionally, YouTube provides options to adjust the delay per broadcast under "Stream Optimizations" in the Advanced section of your [Live Events Dashboard](https://www.youtube.com/my_live_events).
</aside>

## Ending a YouTube Live Broadcast

Click <samp class="blue">Finish</samp>.

(That's it.)

## Post-broadcast options

After clicking <samp class="blue">Finish</samp> we'll present you with a message confirming your broadcast has ended, and offer several options for your next steps.

On YouTube, your Live broadcast is now a video on your channel. 

<samp>{% inlineicon visible 15 inverted %}View Post{% endinlineicon %} View Post</samp> - click to reveal the YouTube video in your default web browser.

<samp>{% inlineicon trash 15 inverted %}Trash Button{% endinlineicon %} Delete Post</samp> - click to remove the video from YouTube. We'll double-check with you before we destroy it, as there is no undo.

<samp>{% inlineicon magnify 15 inverted %}Show File Button{% endinlineicon %} Show File</samp> - Ecamm Live automatically creates a local recording of your broadcast. Click this to reveal the video file in the Mac's Finder.

## Logging out of YouTube

Ecamm Live will stay logged into YouTube unless you manually log out.

If you'd like to log out of YouTube, with <samp>YouTube</samp> selected in the <samp>Destination</samp> menu, go to the <samp>Ecamm Live</samp> menu at the top of your display, and select <samp>Log out</samp>. In the Main Window, we'll ask to confirm before logging you out. Pick <samp>Log Out</samp>.
