docs/_ecamm-live-manual/015-virtual-webcam-and-outputs.md, before:

---

---

Ecamm Live's Output menu provides four options for sending your Ecamm Live broadcast's audio and video to other outputs. These feautures are only available in with an Ecamm Live Pro subscription.

## Virtual Webcam (Pro Only)

Ecamm Live's Virtual Webcam feature allows you to use all of the features of Ecamm Live in any other Mac video app or web service. 

Activate Virtual Webcam by choosing <samp>On</samp> in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Virtual Webcam</samp>. If this is your first time using the feature, you'll be prompted to install the Virtual Webcam. Once installed, you may need to quit any video apps that are already open before the Virtual Webcam is recognized.

Once activated, Ecamm Virtual Webcam will show up as a camera option in other apps on your Mac, such as chat apps, web browsers and webinar apps. Select this option, the app will display the output from Ecamm Live as a camera, including all Overlays, multi-camera layouts and Green Screen effects.

Virtual Webcam will work even when you are not using Ecamm Live to broadcast or record.

The feature will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon virtualcam 15 redbutton %}Virtual Camera Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

### Using Virtual Webcam During with Skype Guests

Ecamm Live's Virtual Camera can be used in Skype to allow your Skype guests to see the broadcast 

## Video Monitor (Pro Only)

Video Monitor provides the ability to monitor your broadcast on a second display connected the Mac. This includes any display that the Mac can use as a secondary monitor, connected by Thunderbolt, HDMI or AirPlay.

Activate Video Monitor by picking the display in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Video Monitor</samp>. If you do not see your secondary display listed in the menu, ensure that it is showing up in the Mac's <samp>System Preferences</samp> ➝ <samp>Displays</samp> panel and is not set up to mirror the primary display.

Once activated, Video Monitor will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon video_out 15 redbutton %}Video Monitor Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

## Audio Monitor (Pro Only)

Audio Monitor provides the ability to monitor your broadcast's audio via any connected audio output device such as headphones or an HDMI display. 

Note that you will likely never want to turn on audio monitoring for any audio output that isn't a headset or a speaker located in a different room, as this will create feedback. As such, your Mac's built-in speakers will not be listed as an output in this menu.

Activate Audio Monitor by picking the audio output device in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Audio Monitor</samp>.

Once activated, Audio Monitor will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon audio_out 15 redbutton %}Audio Monitor Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

## Sharing Window (Pro Only)

Ecamm Live's  Sharing Window feature can be used to send Ecamm Live's output into Zoom. This is an alternative to using the Virtual Camera feature, and may provide a higher resolution when screen sharing. Details on using the Sharing Window [can be found here](http://support.ecamm.com/en/articles/4004884-ecamm-live-s-sharing-window-pro-only).


## NDI Output (Pro Only)

NDI Output provides the ability to send your broadcast to any [Newtek NDI®](https://www.newtek.com/ndi/) capable devices found on the network.

Activate NDI Output by picking a video resolution in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>NDI® Output</samp>.

Once activated, NDI Output will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon ndi_out 15 redbutton %}NDI Output Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

Commit message:

Change for virtual webcam info

docs/_ecamm-live-manual/015-virtual-webcam-and-outputs.md, after:

---

---

Ecamm Live's Output menu provides four options for sending your Ecamm Live broadcast's audio and video to other outputs. These feautures are only available in with an Ecamm Live Pro subscription.

## Virtual Webcam (Pro Only)

Ecamm Live's Virtual Webcam feature allows you to use all of the features of Ecamm Live in any other Mac video app or web service. 

Activate Virtual Webcam by choosing <samp>On</samp> in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Virtual Webcam</samp>. If this is your first time using the feature, you'll be prompted to install the Virtual Webcam. Once installed, you may need to quit any video apps that are already open before the Virtual Webcam is recognized.

Once activated, Ecamm Virtual Webcam will show up as a camera option in other apps on your Mac, such as chat apps, web browsers and webinar apps. Select this option, the app will display the output from Ecamm Live as a camera, including all Overlays, multi-camera layouts and Green Screen effects.

Virtual Webcam will work even when you are not using Ecamm Live to broadcast or record.

The feature will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon virtualcam 15 redbutton %}Virtual Camera Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

### Some Apps Don't Support Virtual Webcams

Note that some apps don't load virtual cameras at all.  This includes most Apple apps such as FaceTime and iMovie, as well as some third-party apps. Fortunately, Zoom works fine.

## Video Monitor (Pro Only)

Video Monitor provides the ability to monitor your broadcast on a second display connected the Mac. This includes any display that the Mac can use as a secondary monitor, connected by Thunderbolt, HDMI or AirPlay.

Activate Video Monitor by picking the display in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Video Monitor</samp>. If you do not see your secondary display listed in the menu, ensure that it is showing up in the Mac's <samp>System Preferences</samp> ➝ <samp>Displays</samp> panel and is not set up to mirror the primary display.

Once activated, Video Monitor will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon video_out 15 redbutton %}Video Monitor Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

## Audio Monitor (Pro Only)

Audio Monitor provides the ability to monitor your broadcast's audio via any connected audio output device such as headphones or an HDMI display. 

Note that you will likely never want to turn on audio monitoring for any audio output that isn't a headset or a speaker located in a different room, as this will create feedback. As such, your Mac's built-in speakers will not be listed as an output in this menu.

Activate Audio Monitor by picking the audio output device in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>Audio Monitor</samp>.

Once activated, Audio Monitor will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon audio_out 15 redbutton %}Audio Monitor Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.

## Sharing Window (Pro Only)

Ecamm Live's  Sharing Window feature can be used to send Ecamm Live's output into Zoom. This is an alternative to using the Virtual Camera feature, and may provide a higher resolution when screen sharing. Details on using the Sharing Window [can be found here](http://support.ecamm.com/en/articles/4004884-ecamm-live-s-sharing-window-pro-only).


## NDI Output (Pro Only)

NDI Output provides the ability to send your broadcast to any [Newtek NDI®](https://www.newtek.com/ndi/) capable devices found on the network.

Activate NDI Output by picking a video resolution in <samp>Outputs</samp> ➝ <samp>NDI® Output</samp>.

Once activated, NDI Output will remain on until it is turned off in the <samp>Outputs</samp> menu or by clicking on the red {% inlineicon ndi_out 15 redbutton %}NDI Output Button{% endinlineicon %} button in the top left corner of the Main Window.
